The design pattern that we used was an MVC and we also used the Observer Design. The MVC was very obvious to use for the assignment. Our GUI was within the view, initialization and data was stored in the controller, and data manipulation was done in the Model. Whenever a button was pressed in the view the controller would update some information and then the view would update its’ view with the new information. It took us awhile to come up with this pattern. For example, we originally had the data in the model since that’s where data manipulation occurs. This caused a problem because the data wouldn’t be the same at times and we were getting a ton of errors. We then decided that since the data wasn’t the same we could force it to be the same by using a singleton. This ended up working and we began working with a singleton pattern for the model. After feeling guilty of this choice, we realized it would make sense to have the data be in the controller since the controller communicates with both the view and the model. Once we realized that, all of our previous errors were fixed and that is our design. The view implemented two listeners, an action listener and a mouse listener. The mouse listener was used for selecting an action (act, move take a role). And the action listener was used for selecting rooms to move to or roles to take. The reason for this is due to the fact we were unable to get the role or room name form the mouse listener. However, the action listener made it a lot easier. The mouse listener listens for actions the user can take and the action listener listens for room/role selections. The model gets data and uses methods from Assignment 4 to manipulate it based on the action. The model is probably our most cohesive class. If we had more time we may have made some better design choices, like making a class for our different components in the view. We had a few button sets and sets of labels that could’ve been in their own class. We did move Casting office into its own class which implements room, that was one thing we wish we had changed about A4. We also created a class called shot counter which had some attributes. We found that it made sense to have shot counter as a class. For the extra credit, we added a bot class that will work for the GUI and the console version


For our Deadwood assignment we got our code up and running how we wanted it to. As far as we are concerned all aspects of our code seem to be working. Earlier there seemed to be a rendering issue but that is no longer the case. We experienced a ton of bugs along the way however. For example, when a day reset, the shot counter images would not reset. This bug lasted for 3-4 days as the solution wasn’t so obvious. The shot counter array, which was supposed to have 22 elements, only had 3, representing the max shot count of a room. This was a nested for loop problem and the solution was to have a count in an inner loop. There were a lot of moving bugs as sometimes a dice would sit on top of other dice, but those were ironed out quickly. If we were to have more time we would have made better UI choices, such as more color coordination, more interaction with the board itself instead of buttons and color coded instances so if it’s yellows turn, some background color would change to yellow. This could’ve been done with a hashmap. It would’ve also been pretty cool to change the view to the current room if a player was in a role as they could only act or rehearse. We ended up implementing a bot so if the player wanted to play by themselves, a bot will finish Deadwood with them as well. 

Some assumptions that we made were to make sure the GUI never closes, make sure dice cannot sit atop one another, make sure the user can see what they rolled when they act a scene, and make it easy to test. We also made the assumption that if a player chooses an action, they can always cancel if they happen to misclick (for moving and taking a role). We did make some assumptions with the bot, we assumed that a player could play the console version with bots so we added an argument that would differentiate between the GUI version and the console version of the game. We also made the assumption that we don’t need to get the amount of players. 

We would test our code almost after every major edit. When we would identify a bug we would write it down and work on them one at a time. This was important to see if any other aspects would change like an image changing spots. We also used to console to do some testing, it was easy to get paths and some other information from the console rather than the gui. The code was easy to debug, when there would be a problem it would be obvious where the problem had occurred. Once we felt that all of the bugs were fixed, we would play a run-through of the game. There has been less testing since the implementation with the bot however. After brief run throughs we felt that there were no major bugs. 

The most challenging aspect was learning the GUI class for the first time and implementing a pattern that we had learned. The GUI by far was the most challenging as we had never experienced it before but once it was learned, it clicked. We did an MVC pattern with an observer pattern. This was hard to conceptualize at first but once we put it in code, with the help of the calculator examples, it was easy to understand. 

A variant that would be more powerful would be a lot of fun to work on, but not sure it would be feasible in a quarter system. We found that translating the game into code was already pretty interesting but I don’t think we would turn down an idea to make something more interesting. I think building a bot to play instead of a human was also really fun yet challenging. 

More time on the assignments would be helpful, for at least assignment 5. I think there was plenty of time to finish it, but with finals coming up in this class and other classes, it made planning hard. If the assignment could be due 5 days earlier somehow then that would’ve reduced some anxiety but timewise the assignment didn’t take as long as we thought. Other than that I am not sure the assignment would need any revisions. Extending extra credit would have been nice too, or at least announcing it sooner. 
